docs/deployment.md, before:

# Deployment

MedTracker runs with Docker Compose in development, test, and production-style
setups.

## Compose files

- `docker-compose.dev.yml`: development stack
- `docker-compose.test.yml`: test stack
- `docker-compose.yml`: production-style stack

## Development deployment

Use Taskfile wrappers:

```bash
task dev:up
task dev:seed
```

Stop or inspect:

```bash
task dev:stop
task dev:logs
task dev:ps
```

## Test deployment

Start/stop test services when needed:

```bash
task test:up
task test:stop
task test:logs
```

Run full tests in the test environment:

```bash
task test
```

## Production-style compose run

If you need to run the production compose file locally:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

Run migrations inside the web container:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml run --rm web rails db:migrate
```

## Environment and database notes

- All environments use PostgreSQL.
- PostgreSQL version target is `18`.
- Use Rails credentials and environment variables for secrets; never commit them.

## Flux GitOps: bootstrap first administrator

For Kubernetes production environments managed by Flux, bootstrap the first admin
using a one-off Job manifest committed through the normal GitOps repo path.

1. Ensure the application release containing `med_tracker:bootstrap_admin` is
   deployed.
2. Add a Secret manifest (or SOPS-encrypted Secret) with:
   - `ADMIN_EMAIL`
   - `ADMIN_PASSWORD`
   - `ADMIN_NAME`
   - `ADMIN_DOB` (`YYYY-MM-DD`)
3. Add a one-off Job manifest that runs:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: med-tracker-bootstrap-admin
spec:
  backoffLimit: 0
  ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 300
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: bootstrap-admin
          image: ghcr.io/your-org/med-tracker:<release-tag>
          command: ["bundle", "exec", "rails", "med_tracker:bootstrap_admin"]
          envFrom:
            - secretRef:
                name: med-tracker-bootstrap-admin
```

1. Commit/push the manifests and reconcile Flux for the target Kustomization.
2. Verify completion:

```bash
kubectl get jobs -n <namespace>
kubectl logs job/med-tracker-bootstrap-admin -n <namespace>
```

1. Confirm the admin can sign in and access `/admin`.
2. Remove/disable bootstrap manifests in Git and reconcile Flux again.

After the first admin exists, self-registration without invitations is blocked.

## Rebuild environments

Development rebuild (destructive to dev volumes):

```bash
task dev:rebuild
```

Test rebuild (destructive to test volumes):

```bash
task test:rebuild
```

Commit message:

feat: implement NHS dm+d medicine search (MLKP-001) (#486)
* feat: implement NHS dm+d medicine search (MLKP-001)

- Add NhsDmd::Client using NHS Terminology Server FHIR ValueSet/$expand

- Add NhsDmd::Search service object and SearchResult value object

- Add MedicinesController#search action returning JSON

- Add GET /medicine-finder/search route

- Update FinderView with Stimulus medicine-search controller

- Add medicine_search_controller.js with debounced fetch and result rendering

- Correct ValueSet URLs to https://dmd.nhs.uk/ValueSet/VMP and /AMP

- 1017 examples, 0 failures (1 pending for future drug interactions feature)

* feat: feature-gate NHS dm+d search and add integration docs

- Add NhsDmd::Client#configured? — returns false when either env var is absent

- Gate NhsDmd::Client#search behind configured? — no HTTP calls when unconfigured

- Gate NhsDmd::Search#call — returns error: 'not_configured' when unconfigured

- Extract private helpers in NhsDmd::Search to satisfy RuboCop AbcSize

- Add showNotConfigured() amber warning in medicine_search_controller.js

- Add docs/nhs-dmd-integration.md with accurate NHS system-to-system account steps

- Update docs/deployment.md with External API credentials section

- Update docs/index.md with the Integrations section

- Update specs: client, search, request specs cover unconfigured state

---------

Signed-off-by: Dan Webb <dan.webb@damacus.io>

docs/deployment.md, after:

# Deployment

MedTracker runs with Docker Compose in development, test, and production-style
setups.

## Compose files

- `docker-compose.dev.yml`: development stack
- `docker-compose.test.yml`: test stack
- `docker-compose.yml`: production-style stack

## Development deployment

Use Taskfile wrappers:

```bash
task dev:up
task dev:seed
```

Stop or inspect:

```bash
task dev:stop
task dev:logs
task dev:ps
```

## Test deployment

Start/stop test services when needed:

```bash
task test:up
task test:stop
task test:logs
```

Run full tests in the test environment:

```bash
task test
```

## Production-style compose run

If you need to run the production compose file locally:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

Run migrations inside the web container:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml run --rm web rails db:migrate
```

## Environment and database notes

- All environments use PostgreSQL.
- PostgreSQL version target is `18`.
- Use Rails credentials and environment variables for secrets; never commit them.

## External API credentials

### NHS dm+d medicine search

The medicine search feature requires a system-to-system account
from the NHS England Terminology Server. See
[NHS dm+d Integration](nhs-dmd-integration.md) for the full
setup guide including how to request credentials.

| Variable                | Required | Description                   |
|-------------------------|----------|-------------------------------|
| `NHS_DMD_CLIENT_ID`     | Yes      | OAuth2 client ID from NHS     |
| `NHS_DMD_CLIENT_SECRET` | Yes      | OAuth2 client secret from NHS |

If either variable is absent the medicine search feature is
disabled automatically — no API calls are made.

## Flux GitOps: bootstrap first administrator

For Kubernetes production environments managed by Flux, bootstrap the first admin
using a one-off Job manifest committed through the normal GitOps repo path.

1. Ensure the application release containing `med_tracker:bootstrap_admin` is
   deployed.
2. Add a Secret manifest (or SOPS-encrypted Secret) with:
   - `ADMIN_EMAIL`
   - `ADMIN_PASSWORD`
   - `ADMIN_NAME`
   - `ADMIN_DOB` (`YYYY-MM-DD`)
3. Add a one-off Job manifest that runs:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: med-tracker-bootstrap-admin
spec:
  backoffLimit: 0
  ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 300
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: bootstrap-admin
          image: ghcr.io/your-org/med-tracker:<release-tag>
          command: ["bundle", "exec", "rails", "med_tracker:bootstrap_admin"]
          envFrom:
            - secretRef:
                name: med-tracker-bootstrap-admin
```

1. Commit/push the manifests and reconcile Flux for the target Kustomization.
2. Verify completion:

```bash
kubectl get jobs -n <namespace>
kubectl logs job/med-tracker-bootstrap-admin -n <namespace>
```

1. Confirm the admin can sign in and access `/admin`.
2. Remove/disable bootstrap manifests in Git and reconcile Flux again.

After the first admin exists, self-registration without invitations is blocked.

## Rebuild environments

Development rebuild (destructive to dev volumes):

```bash
task dev:rebuild
```

Test rebuild (destructive to test volumes):

```bash
task test:rebuild
```
